#summary CS 373 Project 2: SMP

= Algorithm Design =

The algorithm follows the basics of the SMP problem found on Professor Downing's specification:
   # identify a free man
   # identify the highest-ranked woman to whom he has not yet proposed
   # if the woman is currently engaged, identify her current partner
   # for a woman w and two men m and m', decide which of m or m' is preferred by w

We were encouraged to start with a simple implementation of algorithm, without worrying about the quadratic run time requirement. Once we were sure the simple solution was correct, a more efficient solution was implemented with each step 1-4 running in constant time.


= Optimizations =

== 1. identify a free man == 
We used a deque (http://docs.python.org/library/collections.html#collections.deque)
   * Deques allows for O(1) pop and append at the beginning and end of a list.
   * We pop men off the free list when they become engaged, and append if their fiance leaves

== 2. identify the highest-ranked woman to whom he has not yet proposed == 
Similar to #1, we used the constant time pop from deque.
   * Deques allows for O(1) pop and append at the beginning and end of a list.
   * We pop the highest ranked woman from each man's preference list

== 3. if the woman is currently engaged, identify her current partner == 
We used a dictionary to store the engaged couples.
   * Dictionaries allow for O(1) look ups
   * We look up the woman's current partner using the index operator

== 4. for woman w and men m and m', decide which is preferred by w == 
TBA

= Testing =
We wrote a check function that validates each pair of man-woman engagements. All pairs are valid if there is no pair that both prefer each other to their current partners.

= Results =
  * Without optimizations, Sphere accepted our result in 1.11 seconds (fastest)
  * Interestingly, adding the deque for optimizations 1 and 2 slowed down our results
    ** Without optimizations 1 and 2: 1.62 , 1.44, 1.87
    ** With optimizations 1 and 2: 2.04, 1.88, 2.10
    ** One reason might be because of Sphere's test input.  We don't know what it is, so it could very well not make the fullest use of the optimizations.